     The DOE agrees with the comment that not all technical issues are site
specific.   In fact, the referenced sentence in the Mission Plan says `gene-
rally, the resolution of these issues requires site-specific information"   (em-
phasis added).   The DOE will continue to sponsor generic (i.e., not site-
specific) studies in support of site characterization.   The DOE will continue
to work closely with the NRC to ensure that the NRC is kept informed about the
DOE program and plans.   In particular, the DOE will continue to use periodic
technical meetings, management meetings, and consultation with NRC onsite rep-
resentatives to keep the NRC apprised of information on potential licensing
issues.

     Not all the activities scheduled for completion in fiscal years 1984,
1985, and 1986 (Section 2.2) are necessarily "major studies."   Furthermore,
they are divided among the three DOE project offices that are investigating
potentially acceptable sites for the first repository and their contractors.
It is therefore reasonable to expect accurate, thorough, and complete studies,
particularly since some of these activities will continue for several years.
The schedules of these activities were updated in the final Mission Plan.

     With respect to monitoring programs, the intent of the Mission Plan is to
summarize the significant results of completed research.   Some of the results
have come from monitoring and testing activities that are too lengthy to de-
scribe in such a summary.   Monitoring activities and plans for continued moni-
toring activities will be summarized in the site-characterization
plans.

     The purpose of the Mission Plan is to describe the DOE program for the
management of radioactive waste.   A more detailed description of how the DOE
will increase its understanding of the major phenomena bearing on repository
performance will be found in the site-characterization plans (SCPs) to be
issued for each of the three sites chosen for characterization.   The SCPs will
focus on particular host rocks and sites.

     Significant unknowns and information needs for particular sites will be
identified in the site-characterization plans.   Such detailed information is
beyond the scope of the Mission Plan as specified in Section 301 of the Act.
However, to facilitate a comparison of the host rocks for the first repository,
the Mission Plan does discuss the principal advantages and disadvantages of
the host rocks.

     The DOE does not agree that much of the information needed for detailed
site investigations is also needed for earlier stages of siting.    Both the
quantity and the specificity of the needed information increase with each step
of the siting process.   Thus, whereas surveys of the published literature
might yield much of the information needed in the early phases of regional
studies, field investigations at the site,  including in-situ testing at the
proposed depth of the repository, will be necessary to establish the suita-
bility of the site in the site-selection stage.   The guidelines appendix
apparently referred to by the commenter, Appendix III, shows the levels of
findings that the DOE must make at three major siting decisions; it does not
specify the information needs for each stage of the siting process.   (The
guidelines are reproduced in full in Appendix B in Volume I of the Mission
Plan.)


                                       -191-

