geologic studies that it said are needed to understand tectonics but were not
identified in the draft Mission Plan.

Response

      Argillaceous rocks were considered for the first repository in the late
1970s at the Nevada Test Site.   General studies were made of low-permeability
shale, and detailed studies were made of the argillite-rich Eleana Formation.
The argillites were too complex, and further consideration was suspended in
favor of the Yucca Mountain site (tuff).

      Rock structure and the presence of organic matter in the rock are covered
by information need 1.2.1, which includes the "mineral composition of the pro-
posed repository horizon, and geochemical parameters along the water flow."
The DOE also agrees that the effects of heterogeneous rock structure should be
considered.

      The information needed to determine whether the host rock is sufficiently
extensive for the repository is covered in issue 4.3 of Chapter 1.   The test-
ing needed to determine the adequacy of the site is discussed in Chapter 4 of
the draft environmental assessments and will be specified in the site-
characterizat ion plans.

      Erosion in issue 1.4 is meant to represent the physical removal and
transport of surface material.   Conversations with the author of this comment
revealed that the word "weathering" in the comment was meant to represent the
dissolution of the host rock or the waste by ground water.  In that sense
erosion and weathering are different.   Dissolution is covered in issue 1.6.
(See Section 6.5 in this document for comments and responses on dissolution.)

      The million-year limit for protection from erosion comes from Figure
3.4.1 of the DOE's Final Environmental Impact Statement--Management of Commer
cially Generated Radioactive Waste (DOE, 1980a).  That figure shows that in 1
million years the hazard from spent fuel will be well below the hazard from
the natural uranium ore used to make the nuclear fuel.

      The DOE agrees that the regional geologic setting must be considered and
has revised Section 2.2 of Part II.   The information and insights gained from
generic studies will be used in planning and interpreting site-specific in-
vest igat ions.

      In the DOE siting guidelines~ igneous activity is included under the
heading of "tectonics" (10 CFR 960.4-2-7); it is not discussed as a separate
topic.   The wording of issue 1.7 was changed to make it consistent with the
guidelines, showing tectonics as the main heading.  A more detailed explana-
tion of the potential effects of igneous activity was added to the discussion
of issue 1.7.

      The design of the repository will permit construction, operation, and
closure in the face of disturbances by natural events that can be expected to
occur at the site.   It is essentially impossible to design a repository that
will survive igneous activity.   However, the probability of igneous activity
can be kept to a satisfactory low level through proper site selection.   There-
fore, the reference to the effects of igneous activity on the repository was
deleted from issue 4.5.

                                       -19 3-

