     The DOE agrees that focal mechanisms should be used in developing records
of historical earthquakes, and the Mission Plan was changed to reflect this.

     As summarized in issue 1.7  (Chapter 1 of Part II) and required by the
siting guidelines, the DOE will avoid sites where potential tectonic processes
may adversely affect the ability of the repository to isolate the waste.    The
implications,  if any, of tectonic activity at the potentially acceptable
sites, are presented in the draft environmental assessments.   Furthermore,
Chapter 7 of the draft environmental assessments (DOE, 1984a-i)   includes a
comparison of the sites proposed for nomination in terms of tectonics.

     The expression  `seismic trenching" has no generally accepted use or mean-
ing, and the word "seismic' has been deleted from the Mission Plan.    Trenching
is a technique for locating and investigating faults at or near the surface.

     Current information on specific faults is discussed in the environmental
assessments and will be extensively evaluated during site characterization at
the three candidate sites.   Section 2.2.1.1 (now part of Section 2.2.1 of Part
II) was also revised to more accurately reflect the geologic studies related
to tectonics, particularly for the salt sites.   However, there was no intent
to list all the studies in the Mission Plan; a summary of the types of studies
was all that time and space allowed.   Plans to acquire specific data on tec-
tonics will be contained in the site-characterization plans.


6.2.2  BASALT

Synopsis of Comments

     Comments from the NRC (94-104) and one other party (52-79) contended that
the stratigraphy at the Hanford site (basalt)  is not as well known as Section
5.2.1 suggests.   Two other comments (17-113, 52-80) criticized statements
about the thickness of the basalt, saying that the stated thickness is known
only from one well   (i.e., borehole), and statements about the nature of the
interbeds, which were stated to be fluvial sediments.    Similarly, the NRC
(94-105) and the two commenters cited above (17-114, 52-81) criticized the
statement that synclines near the Hanford site exhibit less strain than do the
anticlines.   The NRC commented that no mention is made of the "high horizontal
to vertical stress ratio" that exists in the Cold Creek syncline; the other
parties contended that the information about the deformation of the synclines
is very speculative, few synclines in any surrounding area have been mapped in
any detail.   The Navajo Nation (19-7) asked how far the Hanford site is from
the edge of the Pasco Basin.

     Two commenters (17-115, 52-82) asked for a statement on the probable
"design earthquake" for the peak ground motion that is expected at the basalt
site.  The same parties (17-118, 52-85) requested that the ground acceleration
given for the basalt site on page 5-9 be stated as "site free-field surface
ground acceleration.

Response

     More than 30 boreholes have been drilled through the members and flows of
the Saddle Mountains and Wanapum Basalt Formations and through portions of the

                                       -194-

